# The Telemedical System
 - By Jhanvi Chohan

## A telemedicine system that diagnosis patients remotely

# Description
The Internet connects us to millions of people on a daily basis. Not only does it let us connect, but also interact in various methods including, calls, texts and video calls. Similarly, when it comes to the medical field. Patients and doctors can be connected even though they are 10,000 miles away. Patients prefer getting advice from a medical expert from their own comfort rather than waiting in long queues at the hospital. Not only is it time consuming, but it also prevents patients from getting infected from other viruses and infections at such locations. Medical practitioners must check their booking availability before you book any appointments and the consultation fee is very high. Online consultation is rather cheaper and consumes less time. Therefore, to solve this problem a web app will be implemented which would allow users to key in their symptoms and a diagnosis at their own comfort, if they have an internet connection. This tele-medical symptom diagnosis system will be user friendly, allowing for faster delivery methods between patients and their diagnosis as per their symptoms indicated onto the system. This will allow for convenience, cost-effective, privacy and zero chances of getting infected by other infections or viruses. Incremental prototyping methodology will be used in the development of the system and object-oriented analysis and design will be used to design this system. Tools to be used in the project development would include, java programming language, NetBeans IDE and H2 database. In conclusion, the project will benefit every individual who has regular visit to the hospital or who prefers to check their symptoms, instead of going to the hospital. This in return will benefit the community at large as it will also reduce traffic, save time and will be convenient.

